So, um, my name is Ty McDuffie.
I'm the founder of Griot and Grits.
And I think before I do my own personal interview,
that maybe I'd give you a little background on
the history of Griot and Grits and what it is.
So, um, I think it is very beginnings.
Was when I was visiting from, uh, the air force,
I was visiting my mother's house and I was doing
what most young people do that have just left
home and are coming back to visit or whatever.
I was, I was looking for stuff to steal and
take back with me and I was in my, my sister's
room and I stumbled on a notebook, kind of
just a regular old ratty notebook like this.
And because siblings have no privacy when
I was growing up, um, I looked in it.
And I noticed that there were notes that
she had been writing to her unborn child.
And it was stuff like, you know, Baby, I
understand you're not here yet, and I'm young,
and I'm scared, and I hope I do a good job.
Those kind of messages to her daughter to
just kind of let her know where her mind
was at at that time and where her focus was.
So that's the very, very beginning
kernels of Griot and Gritz.
Then we fast forward many years, uh, to when
my brother Sidney, aka Foot, passed away.
And I had a dilemma at that point.
Do I delete his old voicemails from my phone?
Because everybody always says that you have
to kind of get rid of the past and move on.
And I had found myself listening
to his voicemails quite often.
Um, or, you know, or do I, so the other
half of the dilemma was, do I just keep it?
And, you know, and go back to hear from
him every now and then, and ultimately
I decided to keep it and I've listened
to him quite a few times since then.
The numbers of times that I
listened to it have decreased a bit.
Um, but I still will pull it out just to
hear my brother's voice every now and then.
Then the third part of it was when
my mother died just a few years ago.
Um, first of all, that was the
hardest experience of my life.
Um, but I was, Talking to
one of her cousins, uh, Ms.
Hazel and Ms.
Hazel, you know, as we were talking, she
was, and it had nothing to do with what I had
been thinking about doing all those years.
And Ms.
Hazel says, well, Ty, you know, when I'm gone,
all the family history is gone because it's
just me and my sister left from that generation.
And so that right there put a, spark in me
to at least preserve my family histories.
So what did I do?
I did what everybody else does nowadays.
I started a podcast called Real and Grits.
And that podcast was dedicated to,
um, preserving my family history.
And it also acted as a bit of therapy for me
to kind of get the stories out about my family.
And When I initially started, I was like,
okay, well, let me help other people understand
the importance of saving their history.
Because like, for instance, with just
losing a parent, you don't, it's like,
you don't appreciate how much and how, how
much value and how important to you the
stories that they used to tell were or are.
So I wanted to introduce people to the concept
of saving their stories as a, as a griot.
Um, I wanted to introduce people
to the concept of a griot.
And, you know, and, and empower them
to have griots in their own family.
So we started doing that.
Um, and my, my ultimate goal was
to create a searchable, what I was
saying, because I didn't know I'm not
a tech guy, was to create a searchable
database of oral black family histories.
And I mentioned it to a few people, mainly my
friend Gerard, um, who is into AI and he was like,
uh, there's so many ways that we can improve this
and that we can make it more valuable and more
appealing to so many more people, uh, to help them
understand the importance of saving their history.
So that's where it came from.
Um, initially from me looking for something to
steal in my mama's house to take back overseas
with me when I was in the air force to a podcast.
To now, um, partnering with different
people and organizations to try
to bring this, uh, to fruition.
And there's several reasons why I won't
get into all of that and bore you.
Um, at this point, I guess I'll
just start with, uh, my interview.
Thanks, and I hope I don't bore you to death.